I'm Travis Brown,
and I'm in the Technology Evangelism
Department at Apple.
And many of you might have recognized
me from some of the graphics sessions.
I am responsible for graphics
and imaging at Apple,
at least in working with developers
and helping grow those technologies.
But one of the other areas that
I actually play a significant
role in is accessibility.
I'm sort of the technologist who
keeps track of what assistive
technology needs in terms of
operating systems requirements,
and also how to -- and I bring
that message directly into
engineering to effect change.
And one thing we've been doing is a
team inside Apple has been working very,
very hard on accessibility.
And so one thing I want to make
really clear is that a lot of
developers and a lot of users
were worried when Mac OS X came
out that Apple wasn't committed to
doing anything with accessibility.
But we really are,
because we consider that it's a
great idea to make our platform
open and accessible to all users.
And so in Jaguar,
we spent quite a bit of time doing that.
I'm doing just that.
So let's look at the agenda real quick.
What we're going to do is we're
going to give sort of a real
quick overview of accessibility in
case there are developers in the
audience who are not familiar with
issues relating to accessibility.
So we'll bracket why
accessibility is important.
We'll talk a little bit, a really,
really high level on Section 508
because that's the way many developers
have been introduced to accessibility
is through Section 508 requirements.
Then we're going to quickly begin
to focus on accessibility in Jaguar.
And we'll talk about our universal
access features that you've seen
demonstrated in a variety of sessions.
I found that the zooming feature that's
now built into Jaguar has been very,
very popular.
And it's been used in practically
every session I've attended
to focus in on something.
So we'll also then continue on to what's
the most important part of this session,
which is the developer
accessibility features.
This is for developers to use to
make their applications accessible.
And that'll culminate, obviously,
in a lot of detail
provided by Mike Engber,
who will be on stage,
who will present the
Jaguar accessibility APIs.
And so we're really proud of
the fact that now we have an
API dedicated to accessibility
that's part of the operating system.
Why is accessibility important?
If you're a developer and
you've heard about this,
why is it important for you
to really take accessibility
seriously in your applications?
Well, an important and stunning fact is
that 54 million people in the U.S.
have some form of disability.
And that's a huge number.
And that's a pretty up-to-date number,
considering we checked it with the U.S.
Department of Education on Friday.
But again,
that means a large number of customers,
potential users of your
software or your peripherals,
could be affected by
some form of disability.
And therefore, they might not be able to
access the full functionality
that your software performs.
So it's a real key point.
These are mutual customers,
disabled or not.
Those are customers, and those are sales
opportunities for your products,
peripherals, and in our case, hardware.
Increasingly,
this issue has become something
that the state and local governments
have taken up as a requirement.
So when you sell product
in through a federal,
state, or local channel,
frequently you're going to have
to make some sort of declaration
on how accessible your product is.
This is also being done in education.
So it's a real significant requirement,
and it's becoming an
increasing requirement,
particularly on the back of Section 508,
which we'll talk about in a moment,
that really dictates what minimum
accessibility standards your
application needs to follow
to be considered accessible,
and therefore, in many cases,
able to be put on, you know,
purchased by the federal government.
And then the last point is it's
really the right thing to do,
because before I started working
with community with disabilities,
I really didn't understand
how much the computer,
in the case of this Macintosh,
can be fundamentally enabling and
empowering to users with disabilities.
It's something that's,
you almost have to experience it,
because we do many operations
with our computer that is trivial,
and we can, we don't really view them in
a serious and necessary light.
But, for example,
text-to-speech may be absolutely
vital to a user who's unable to speak,
and that might be a whole entree to
communicating with the world at large.
So it's a really good thing to do, and,
you know, coupled with the fact that
it's now a sales requirement,
and, you know,
the potential of the fact that
there's a large number of customers
that you may be missing when selling
your software or hardware solutions,
it's a really important thing to do.
Let's talk just really
briefly about Section 508.
Essentially, Section 508 is an extension
of the Rehabilitation Act of,
I believe, 1973.
And so there's been laws regulating
support for persons with disabilities
for a long time in the books.
It's just they never really reached
in and sort of provided minimum
standards for things like computers,
operating systems, applications,
websites, and general electronic devices.
And this was a problem because
those areas have grown up so
fast over the past 20 years,
in many cases,
little or no effort was put
into making them accessible.
So this is a significant problem
that the functionality that we
find every day in our computers,
in many cases, is not available to a
person with a disability.
So the federal government
has weighed in and says,
"We're going to have to make
sure that we have a standard
for things that it purchases.
Those products need to be compliant and
adhere it to some of the minimal rules
laid down in Section 508." And the key
thing is that this is good and bad.
One is this has caused accessibility
to sort of percolate up to becoming an
important issue for software developers
and hardware developers to deal with.
But it's also bad because Section 508
is being taken as the only standard.
So that if you do Section 508,
you're fully accessible and you're done.
That's not really the attitude
you should take as you approach
accessibility in your products.
Because one thing is the spectrum
of disabilities is quite large,
and Section 508 doesn't necessarily
address every single one of them.
But it's important that it started and
opened the dialogue and caused people
to take the whole matter seriously.
Now,
if you haven't already done this and you
want to find out more about Section 508,
what you need to do is go to
the Access Board's website and
download or take a look online
at Section 508 requirements.
They're pretty interesting.
It's actually a fairly sizable document,
but the parts that really apply
to operating system software
and peripherals is fairly short.
If I remember,
the part that applies to operating
systems is about a column and
a half inside the document.
And you look at it and you'll first go,
hmm, this is not that bad.
Then you'll look at it again and go,
okay,
this has some difficulties in some areas.
Then you'll look at it
again and you'll go,
I'm going to have to redo
my complete application.
So the key thing is don't panic,
because first place you want to
look at is the commentary documents
that are up there on the website.
In many cases,
if you're having an issue with
a particular part of Section 508
that might be mandating a certain
functionality in your application,
and you don't think that might not
apply to your application or you
don't know if it applies or how
it applies to your application,
often someone has asked that
question before and those
comments are going to be,
you can find them up
there on the website.
So it's a good first start.
But the key point to really
remember is that there's really
three players in accessibility.
There's going to be, obviously, you,
the application writer.
There's going to be the
operating system vendor,
which is Apple.
And then also there's going to be
something called assistive technology.
That we'll actually get at in a moment.
But essentially the burden of
accessibility is shared by all three.
And the way Section 508 works is
that you don't have to implement all
of Section 508 if another part of,
let's say, for example,
the operating system
supports that feature.
And if your application is
based on the operating system,
it might pick that functionality up for
free and therefore meet the requirement.
The same is true if assistive
technology can actually perform that
function as well on behalf of your
application or the operating system.
So you're not alone in this.
So the key thing is when
you look at Section 508,
look at the commentary,
understand what it's talking about.
But then also the next questions
to ask are first come to us,
come to Apple and say, hey,
how's my application impacted by
this particular part of Section 508?
And we might be able to reply,
you're covered.
The operating system,
Jaguar now supports that.
So the key thing is take a look at it.
It is the document to sort of get
your feet wet with accessibility.
And it also happens to be the
document that a lot of the people use.
It's not just the document
that a lot of the federal,
state, and local and educational
requirements are being based on.
So let's actually talk more
about accessibility in Jaguar.
Obviously, we saw the keynote.
We announced that we have support
for a lot of accessibility features.
And we really sort of factored
the problem into two levels.
One thing is we want the platform
to be reasonably accessible
right outside of the box.
And so we've created a bunch of features
which we call user-level accessibility.
And those are what we call
universal access features.
That's sort of our
umbrella term for them.
And then the more interesting part
for today's discussion is really
the developer-level accessibility,
which is what you as a developer
have to do inside your applications
to either expose them to our
accessibility APIs or work in
conjunction with assistive technology.
So we'll start first and talk a little
bit about user-level accessibility.
And that's universal access.
Now, some of you may have
seen this little icon.
It appeared actually in 10.1.
We actually snuck some of
this functionality in 10.1.
And this little icon
resides in the press panel.
So if you're not familiar,
you can go to the system preferences.
You can click on them.
Universal access.
And that's where most of the features
dealing with accessibility will live.
There's some exceptions.
For example,
some of the speech-related features
are actually under the speech
area in the operating system.
So let's look at the Jaguar features.
The first thing we have is the zooming
feature that I spoke about earlier.
Essentially, this is meant to aid
people who have low vision.
So if you need the screen magnified,
this is a method that you can dynamically
zoom in on any part of the screen.
And the interesting thing here
as compared to things like
CloseView that ran under Mac OS 9
is this is done at a very low
level inside the operating system.
So it supports things
that CloseView never did.
For example,
we're able to support zooming
of QuickTime movies and also
zooming of OpenGL content.
So it's a very fundamentally
integrated component.
It enables you to zoom.
I can't remember the exact size,
but you can zoom up to a huge degree.
And it also has supports for zooming in
and out very rapidly so that it has some
nice usability features there as well.
The next one is Inversion,
which is also relating to vision.
Many users might have issues
with contrast or brightness or
a contrast disability that means
they need to have maximum degree
of contrast to detect edges.
And this is a mode that you
can put the whole screen in,
which essentially does a screen inversion
taking white to black and black to white,
and enables you to get the maximum
contrast ratio to see the screen.
We also have the Visual Beep,
which on Mac OS 9,
if you turn the volume off,
we'd actually flash the menu bar.
We've done something a little
more comprehensive than Mac OS X,
so we actually will flash the screen.
This enables a user with a hearing
disability to understand that the
system has actually sounded the alert,
that the system needs attention and
needs for the user to look maybe at the
dock or some other part of the system
or a dialogue that's popped up and
address a particular alert condition.
We also have Sticky Keys.
Sticky Keys is essentially
an input device,
a form of input method that
essentially is going to allow
users with coordination issues to,
instead of chord keys like
we do for many operations,
like let's say creating a folder,
they're able to hit each key
individually in sequence,
and Sticky Keys will automatically
coalesce them into that key press.
So this means things like
creating a new folder,
such as hitting Command-Shift-N,
you can do singly,
and the system will essentially
show you the actual key presses
in a little transparent floating
window on the upper left.
And then once you actually
complete the sequence,
it will actually perform past that
coalesced key event into the system,
and the system will act accordingly.
And that works system-wide.
It works in applications.
Obviously, in this case,
it's shown working in the Finder.
Slow keys, another form of input method
that is essentially going to
take and give a user with maybe a
coordination issue the ability to
type and hold a key to indicate
that's the key press they intend.
So this prevents users who may hit other
keys in the action of trying to press
a key the ability to really indicate to
the system they mean this particular key.
We also have mouse keys,
and this is useful in general.
You can actually navigate,
move the mouse with the keyboard.
So it also gives a very fine
degree of control as well.
And then actually something that's
another example of assistive
technology being really useful
in general is keyboard navigation.
Carbon and Cocoa now both
support keyboard navigation.
And this means most applications are
going to support keyboard navigation
because this functionality has been
integrated into the frameworks.
There's also ways, and those will end the
sessions later today,
for Carbon accessibility
and also Cocoa controls.
They'll talk a little more at length
about how to sort of customize and
add some additional functionality to
the keyboard navigation that comes
automatically on your behalf in Jaguar.
But essentially,
you can fully navigate the user
interface using the keyboard in Jaguar.
Now let me segue over to a
different type of development that's
done relative to accessibility,
and that's assistive technology.
This is the part that I said
is part of the three parts that
support and meet accessibility
requirements relative to Section 508.
And that is software developers who
specialize on creating solutions that
are going to change or modify the
behavior of the system in order to
accommodate someone with a disability.
And, for example,
here I have Niedermeyer Consulting's
rather excellent Keystrokes,
which is essentially
an on-screen keyboard.
So without even having a keyboard,
you can actually use your mouse
and push and type into the system.
And this is very useful for someone,
for example, who may use a head mouse or
some other sort of pointing
device to be able to work.
type.
So, the technical definition
of accessibility is this.
It's essentially taking your system,
your Macintosh,
and modifying it with hardware
or software to accommodate
a specific disability.
And there's a huge industry, well,
actually a small cottage industry
is actually more to the point,
that creates these solutions.
And also creates these solutions
to address the significant number
of different types of disabilities.
And this is an important community
to understand and interact with
as you start looking to make
your applications accessible.
Because these, in many ways,
are going to be the way that someone
with a disability is going to interact
through assistive technology to actually
make your application accessible.
So, let's actually spend a little bit of
time on how this relates to Section 508.
Section 508,
one of the key things it does,
in addition to providing sort of a
minimum list of things that applications
must do to be considered accessible,
there's actually sort of a subtext there,
which those requirements,
for the most part, are for the enablement
of assistive technology.
They are to remove the
roadblocks that prevented the
assistive technology community,
which provided that finishing
step to really making platforms
accessible on behalf of application
developers and hardware manufacturers.
They removed the roadblocks
because there were many.
So, for example, one of the first things,
right off the bat,
I think it's Section A and
Part A in Section 508,
is applications must
support keyboard navigation.
The reason that's done is because
keyboard navigation is one of the primary
ways assistive technology can be used.
It controls applications and makes
those applications accessible.
And then also certain low-level things,
such as exposing a lot of
user interface information,
such as the controls
that are on the screen,
what type they are, where they are,
if they're in a particular state,
and also how they work.
Focus.
I mean, that's pretty obvious to us.
We can use our eyes to track
where the insert point is or
where the mouse pointer is,
but someone with a vision
disability might not.
So that information needs to
be programmatically exposed.
On screen.
On screen text is another issue.
Your application freely
puts text up on the screen,
but that's a very important thing
to make available to assistive
technology because they may need
to act upon that or communicate
that text in a different manner.
And there's a couple others
inside the specification.
[Transcript missing]
And then a very interesting form of
assistive technology is a screen reader.
And it does essentially what it says.
It takes the textual contents
on the screen and typically
reads it out loud with some sort
of text-to-speech synthesis.
In many cases,
it will also work in conjunction with
a Braille display so that the text on
the screen is going to be displayed
on an instrument that allows someone
who can read Braille to understand the
characters that are actually on screen.
This is probably the most tricky form
of assistive technology right here.
It's technically very,
very difficult because actually we had a
bird of a feather just the other day and
the screen reader manufacturer was there.
And they made an important point,
something I hadn't thought of,
is like an operating system,
a screen reader has to support all
the applications on the system.
And that's a very, very daunting task.
And this is why we need
to work in conjunction.
Apple Application developers who are
interested in accessibility and also
the assistive technology providers,
in this case the screen
reader developers,
are all going to need to work together
because this is a very difficult problem
for any one party to solve alone.
A typical sort of OS-level functionality
that needs to be provided to support
screen readers is going to be methods
to discover the user interface state.
Focus, where the mouse is,
where the insert point is,
and also to be able to
determine exact mouse location.
Now, an important thing happened
when we moved to Mac OS X,
and this is one of the reasons
sort of for the delay why Apple is
just now coming out and saying,
hey, we have this great
accessibility message in Jaguar.
It's because assistive technology
on the Macintosh used essentially
methods that don't work on Mac OS X.
The old extension, install an extension,
trap and patch something,
insert some code at some random
specific place in the operating
system to change the behavior.
So this was typical.
Most assistive technology that
was developed on the Macintosh
essentially worked this way.
Basically,
you installed a set of extensions.
Those extensions dramatically changed
the behavior of the operating system,
but they did it without the
application's knowledge.
This is why you,
if you're an application developer,
in many cases had no idea that
someone might be using a screen
reader to interact with your software,
because it wasn't something that
you ever really had to develop for.
But when Mac OS moved,
when Mac OS X moved,
when Mac OS X came out,
we moved to a protected memory model.
So this means one application
has one memory partition,
and it cannot affect
another running application.
So this technique of creating
assistive technology completely
and fundamentally broke.
But also has some benefits because
this technique was also very,
very fragile.
A lot of you may not have been aware that
as we all like to revise our products,
in many cases as we made a new version,
particularly if we went to a major
new version of an application,
we would simultaneously break
assistive technology that was making
assumptions about where they could
patch in and modify things to get
the hooks they needed to make an app
which was fundamentally inaccessible
and not designed for accessibility
under Mac OS 9 fully accessible.
So what do we want to try to do on 10?
The end goal of what we're
going to be talking about here,
essentially the Accessibility APIs,
is to allow an assistive
technology application,
which again is in many cases going
to be finishing the accessibility
picture on behalf of your application.
It needs to be able to run just
like any other app on the system.
No different requirements,
no special privileges.
It's just going to run
like another application.
It's going to have to do things in
conjunction with the operating system
to be able to reach across those memory
partitions and do things like parse
UI state and do things like that.
So these pathways are
available in JAGUAR.
So assistive technology
applications have several ways
to now interact with the system.
They vary from I/O Kit,
which is where you do device driver
development and really kind of
touch the hardware in Mac OS X.
There's also some API in Quartz,
which is the windowing system
and also the drawing system.
The frameworks have been modified
in JAGUAR to support accessibility.
And the assistive technology application,
and to a lesser extent
your own application,
are going to be clients or
targets to the accessibility
APIs that are new in JAGUAR.
So let's look at a couple different
techniques where assistive technology
vendors can actually approach the system,
and I'll go into a little more detail.
At the highest level,
a lot of assistive technology,
particularly input methods,
are going to be able to rely
on the keyboard navigation
that's part of Jaguar.
They can essentially generate macros of
keystrokes and put them into the system,
and the UI is going to respond to them
as if it was driven from a keyboard.
One level below that is going to be
some APIs such as CG Remote Operation,
which essentially allows
you to synthesize an event
and pop it into the system,
and it'll go through the
regular event queues.
So that gives you this sort
of synthesis aspect that a lot
of assistive technology needs.
Then also,
one thing that's important is if you are
an assistive technology developer and
you're bringing product over to Mac OS X,
I think it's important for you to look at
the USB human interface device classes,
because we find a lot of
assistive technology vendors are,
they're bringing USB peripherals
over and they do a custom
device implementation under USB,
and that requires a custom driver
to be plugged in to the Macintosh.
There's an interesting sort of
huge specification that's part
of the USB spec called HID.
HID has several hundred different
categories of input devices.
If you rely on HID,
it makes it much easier for applications,
even your own companion assistive
technology application that may
support the actual input device,
easier to write.
The operating system can
offer more functionality.
Things are much more discreet than
if you do a custom implementation.
And then at the lowest level,
if you absolutely have to,
you can always develop a
custom driver for your device.
We generally, if you're going to do that,
please talk to us because in many
cases there's ways to accomplish
just that in a different way that
you might not have thought of.
It's very common for assistive
technology developers to immediately
jump at the IOCit level and
try to do a device driver,
and in many cases that's sort of
the wrong way to approach things.
As you notice,
the sort of thread between what
your application needs to provide,
vis-a-vis Section 508,
and what assistive technology needs
to be able to drive your applications,
is mainly relating to discovering
and understanding and driving
the user interface on the system.
And this is where we spent
a lot of work in Jaguar,
is creating the infrastructure
to support this.
For the first time,
we have API-level support
for discovery of UI elements
inside the operating system.
And this is very, very important,
because this moves us away from the model
where assistive technology vendors are
going to have to rely purely on their own
cleverness to make these solutions work.
And essentially,
it just performs a function where I can
have an assistive technology application
running in one memory partition,
and it can have a dialogue
with the framework that's
supporting another application,
and figure out what the status
of the user interface is,
where controls are,
and it can even send messages
to control that user interface.
So this gives assistive technology
the pipeline to control applications.
And the important point here
is this really provides a
common ground for Apple,
the application developer,
and the assistive technology developer
to come together and work together.
Because obviously,
what we're showing here is the first
implementation of the accessibility APIs.
We happen to think it's pretty good,
but I'm sure there's
areas where we've missed.
And that's where we're going to rely
on response from this community.
on the accessibility API to tell us
where we need to iterate and improve.
And then once we deliver
that functionality in API,
that becomes sort of the
de facto way to do it.
So it's very important that we all
work together to continue to involve
accessibility on the platform.
Because if we all cooperate,
it's going to make the whole
act of making all users
able to use your software,
our hardware, our operating system,
and your peripherals that much easier.
So what I'd like to do is
invite Mike Ingber on stage.
And he's going to talk more
directly to the engineering
aspects of the accessibility APIs.
Thank you.
My name is Mike Engber,
and I'm a software engineer
in the Cocoa Group.
And for the next 20 minutes or so,
I'm going to talk to you about
the new Accessibility APIs that
we've introduced in Jaguar.
Accessibility APIs allow one
application to examine the user
interface of another application.
The clients of these APIs are
intended to be assistive applications.
For example,
a screen reader could use these APIs to
discover what windows are in some other
application and then dig around in the
window and find out there's a button,
discover the text in the button,
present that text to the user,
and then finally press the button.
There's a whole other half to this story,
and that's what the target applications
have to do to allow this to work.
This session is going to focus on
the Accessibility APIs themselves.
The two sessions immediately
following it are going to cover
what target applications have to do.
The next session, Session 209,
is going to talk about what
Carbon apps have to do.
And the session after that is
going to cover Cocoa Controls.
And then about a third of that
talk is going to cover specifically
what Cocoa apps need to do to
work with the Accessibility APIs.
So I'm going to start out by
mentioning the goals behind
the design of these APIs.
The first thing we wanted to do,
as has been mentioned before,
is we wanted to allow
applications to examine the user
interface of other applications.
We also wanted them to be
able to interact with the user
interface of other applications,
press buttons, move sliders,
things like that.
And then finally,
we wanted them to be able to be notified
of changes in their target applications.
If a window goes away or a
value of some control changes,
the assistive app wants to know
about it and behave appropriately.
A second goal is that we wanted a
single set of APIs to work against
both Cocoa and Carbon applications,
so that you basically don't
have to do twice the work.
The third goal was to make sure that
these APIs worked out of the box with
the standard user interface elements.
And this means that most existing
applications already have
some degree of accessibility.
and it also means that developers
have a minimal burden in
implementing or making their apps
And the final goal was to make
it possible for developers who
have non-standard user interface
features to make them accessible.
So I'm going to bring Kevin Aitken
of the Speech Group on stage,
and he's going to demonstrate
what the Speech Group has been
able to do using these APIs.
Can you hear me?
Oh, boy.
Okay, sounds great.
Okay,
I think I need demo machine number one.
Demo one.
I'm from the Speech Group and the
Speech Group has been working hard on
a number of new features for Jaguar.
I'm going to show two
of them in this session.
The reason I'm going to be showing
just two is because we're using
Accessibility API to implement these.
We're really excited about this
because this allows us to extend what
we're able to provide out of the box.
The two features,
the first one is an enhancement
to our text-to-speech system.
It allows us to speak the
on-screen text that the user sees.
And the other is an enhancement to
our speakable items application.
This is our built-in speech
recognition command and control system.
And now you'll be able to
speak menu items and the
items inside the front window.
So let me go to the speech
preference panel here.
You may have seen this in the keynote,
but I'll just...
So I'm going to run it really quick.
Speaker 2: Speak recognition.
As I move around the
screen it... Speaker 2:
Speak text under the mouse.
It speaks to visible text and we're
all using accessibility API here
so as I go down through the doc.
Speaker 2: System preferences.
What we're doing is we're
basically making two calls here.
We're asking accessibility API what
is the object under the mouse at
this moment and then given that
object we ask what is the title.
In this case it comes back as
system preferences and that's
what we synthesize to the speaker.
So we have access to
virtually all of the system.
Find it.
We can go up here to the-- Go.
[Transcript missing]
So let me go back to the
speech preference panel.
I'm going to turn that off.
And I'm going to switch gears and
go to the speech recognition to
show what we're doing with that.
That uses a little bit
different method because,
you know, the mouse really isn't
involved in that case.
And so what we want to do is come
up from the bottom and explore what
the application is providing to us.
So let me turn that on.
And instead of actually speak to it,
I'm just going to,
I think it may be more effective that you
can see over here in the speech commands,
you may not be able to read all
the commands that are in there.
But you'll see that as
I change the user interface,
we get notification and we update
that list of spoke commands that
are possible at that moment.
So we're able to via the
accessibility API keep up with the
user whether they're using a mouse,
whether they're using some
other kind of input device.
And so I can switch to
another application.
We get notification that
the application has changed.
We can go up to the window
here and as it appears,
we then get notification.
We get a reference.
We can easily find out that this
is the front window and then begin
exploring the full contents of that
window and make decisions about
what we want to provide to the user.
So that's a real quick demo of that.
We have a speech session.
We have a speech session
tomorrow afternoon.
We'd love you to come attend
and see how you can use more of
a speech in your application.
And I think the time of the session
will be at the end of this presentation.
So back to you, Mike.
Okay.
Bring the slides back on.
Okay, so the first problem that has
to be solved in implementing the
Accessibility APIs is how we're
gonna represent the user interface.
This diagram is an abstract
representation of an assistive app
trying to examine the user interface
of two target applications,
one Cocoa application,
one Carbon application.
And the question marks are meant to
indicate that it's not exactly obvious
what kind of information is going to be
passed back from the target application
to represent its user interface.
Each of these applications has a
natural representation of its user
interface in terms of its own framework.
Cocoa apps have NSWindows and NSControls.
Carbon apps have
ControlRefs and WindowRefs.
But there are problems trying to
use these natural representations.
One problem is that they're
specific to the framework,
which means the assistive application
has to deal with all the complexity
of Cocoa applications and all the
complexity of Carbon applications.
Another problem is that the
natural representations contain
a lot of extraneous detail.
If you consider just the simple button
in a window in a Cocoa application,
what you actually have is a
button cell inside a control,
inside the content view of the window,
inside another view,
and finally you get to the NSWindow.
And the only thing the assistive
app is really interested in is
the fact that there's a window
and there's a button in it.
So this next slide shows
our solution to the problem.
The boxes in green are the new layers
of code that were added in Jaguar.
The box in front of the assistive
app are the Accessibility APIs,
which we're discussing.
And the boxes in front of the target
applications are the framework-specific
protocols that allow them to
work with the Accessibility APIs.
Now you'll notice that the question
marks have been replaced by the
phrase or the term UI element,
which is short for
user interface element.
and our solution, or our representation,
is to use a generic user
interface element object,
or UI element for short.
And everything is a UI element.
A window is a UI element,
a menu is a UI element,
a button is a UI element,
and there's even a special
UI element that represents the top
level or the whole application.
So now that we know what
the representation is,
basically a hierarchy of UI elements,
we're going to talk about the details
of what UI elements have to offer.
First, there's attributes.
And attributes provide
information about a UI element.
There's attributes to return its
title or its value or its children,
which would be the basis for
walking the whole hierarchy.
And UI elements also support actions.
And this is a way for you to
interact with the application.
For instance, a button UI element would
have a press action.
A slider might have an
increment or decrement action.
Now we're going to spend a couple
of slides talking about attributes.
So as I said before,
attributes are designed to
provide information about
a user interface element.
And there's basically four
operations that the Accessibility
APIs allow with attributes.
First, you can get a list of a
UI element's attributes.
Second, you can get the value
of a specific attribute.
Third, you can check if that
attribute can be set.
And finally,
you can set the value of that attribute.
Now one special attribute
is the role attribute,
which basically describes
the class or the kind of
UI element you're dealing with.
So there's going to be
roles for checkboxes,
buttons, menus, things like that.
Now this attribute is really
for developers to use.
It's not to be presented to the user.
It's something you could test off of
and make a decision in the logic of
your program based on the value of it.
If you want to present to the user what
kind of UI element you're dealing with,
then there's the role description.
And that's a localized string
that you can present to the user.
Another attribute that's
commonly used is the title.
For instance, a button,
the text in a button is the
value of its title attribute.
If it's a graphical button like an arrow,
its title might be down.
Another common attribute
is the Value attribute.
A slider's value would be a number.
The value of a text
field would be a string.
And then there's two more attributes that
relate to the hierarchy of UI elements.
The parent attribute is your
parent in the hierarchy,
and the children attribute is,
if it's present,
reveals the child UI elements.
So the other thing that
UI elements support are actions.
And you should think of actions
as very simple operations.
Basically, about what you could do with
a single click of a mouse.
Press a button, pick a menu item,
things like that.
And there's three basic operations that
are allowed with respect to actions.
You can get a list of the
actions a UI element supports.
You can get the description
of a specific action,
if you want to present that to the user.
And finally, you can perform that action.
A couple of points to make about actions.
One, they're very generic.
They're going to be
things like pick or press.
There's no instance-specific information.
If you have a print
button or a cancel button,
its action is still going to be press.
The Assistive App doesn't really know
anything apart from the fact that
it's a button and it can be pressed.
It does have the option of presenting
the title of the button to the user,
and if the title says "Print," then
the user is going to have an idea
of what this button's going to do.
But apart from that,
there's no attempt to make
this information available
to the Assistive App.
And another point to make is that
actions aren't the only way to
interact with the target application.
So, for instance,
you might be surprised to
discover there's no action to
select the text in a text field.
Instead, what you do is set the value of
the selected text range attribute.
So now we're going to talk about
a couple of special UI elements.
And the first is the application,
or the top-level user interface element.
This is basically going to be
your starting point into the
hierarchy if your assistive app
sort of works from the top down.
Your children will be the
windows in the application and
the menu bar in the application.
There's a special attribute to return
the menu bar so you don't have to dig
through the window list to find it.
And there's another attribute
to return the list of windows.
There's also an attribute to
return the UI element that
currently has the keyboard focus.
And there's an attribute to return
whether the application is active.
There's also attributes
to return the main window,
the key window,
and there's a whole variety of other
attributes that I'm not going to go into.
There are also two special
calls in the API that only work
on application UI elements.
And one of them is for hit testing.
If you wish to discover what
UI element is at a specific position,
you can use the application UI element,
pass it the coordinates,
and you'll get back the
UI element at that position.
and there's also a special
call in case you wish to post
keystrokes to an application.
So if your assistive app needs to
emulate a keyboard for some reason,
you can use this API to send
keystrokes to an application.
A similar and related concept
is the system-wide U-Element.
It's kind of an application U-Element,
but it represents all applications.
But depending on what your
assistive app is trying to do,
it might be convenient to discover
what U-Element is under the mouse,
regardless of what application it is.
And so if you do hit testing
on the system-wide U-Element,
you're going to get back some U-Element,
and you don't know what
application it's going to be in.
And for instance,
that's what the reading the button,
this speech demo was using.
The system-wide UI element also
supports posting keystrokes,
and they go to the active application.
And there's also an attribute to
return the current keyboard focus,
again, regardless of the application.
The last section of the APIs has
to deal with notifications.
Assistive apps want to be notified about
changes in their target application.
There's a series of notifications
having to do with Windows,
when they're created, when they're moved,
they're miniaturized.
There's also a series of notifications
having to deal with changes in
the state of the application,
if it's hidden, if it's activated,
deactivated, things like that.
There's also a notification that'll tell
you if a specific UI element has been
destroyed or if its value has changed.
When you register for a notification,
you specify the name of the
notification you're interested in,
and then you have a choice.
You can either specify a specific
UI element you want to observe,
or you can pass the
application UI element,
meaning any notification of this
type that happens in the application,
I want to hear about it.
So we've covered the basic concepts
behind the Accessibility APIs,
and I thought I'd like to sort of
wrap that part up by pointing out
a few things the APIs do not do.
So one of them is the Accessibility
APIs do not really address the
same problems that scripting does.
If you think about just the relatively
simple example of printing a document,
in Apple Script,
you can do that with a single line.
You tell the application to
print the print file whatever,
and it prints it.
If you try to do this with
the Accessibility APIs,
first you get to dig through the
menu bar and find the file menu.
Then you find the open item,
and you get to pick it.
Then you have to use the standard
file dialogue and navigate to your
file and eventually open it up.
Then you get to dig back
through the menu bar,
find the print menu item, and so on.
You get to deal with the print dialog.
So it's very tedious.
So if what you're trying to
do is drive the application,
AppleScript is really
better suited to the task.
But if what you're trying to
do is help a user with the user
interface of the application,
that's what accessibility does.
Another thing you might notice as you
use these APIs is that there's things
we could have done that we didn't.
For instance, the title of a window,
that attribute could be settable,
but it's not.
Or we could have allowed you to set
the value of a radio button directly.
Instead,
all you can do is press the radio button.
So again,
bear in mind that these APIs are designed
to allow you to do what a user could do
if they were driving the user interface.
They're not designed to allow you
to program this other application.
And in the case of setting
the value of a radio button,
that could be pretty dangerous
because if you uncheck a radio button,
you might leave the radio cluster
in a state where nothing's selected,
a state that the programmer may not
have anticipated being possible.
And so my final comment on this is
that I'm sure these APIs are going to
be put to all kinds of creative uses.
And I'm not going to pass judgment on
what's an assistive app and what's not.
But one thing you should keep in
mind is that this functionality
is going to be off by default.
In your C disks,
it's turned on by default.
But when we finally ship,
the user is going to need to go
into the universal access system
preferences and turn it on.
So now we're going to
bring Kevin back on,
and he's going to demonstrate a tool
[Transcript missing]
So what it's doing is it's following
the mouse around and picking up what
object or UI element is under the
mouse at this moment and displaying
all the information that is available
through the Accessibility API.
So let's stop up here and lock
on this startup disk icon.
I'm going to push F10 and
that's going to lock us on there
so I can have my mouse back.
So as we look through here,
at the top part here,
we see the Startup Disk Push button.
And we can work up the hierarchy.
It's inside a toolbar,
which is inside the window named Speech.
And that is inside the application
name System Preferences.
So that gives you an idea of
where this push button lives.
And then, as Mike talked about,
here are the attributes.
So we have the role,
the role description, the help,
there's no help, some state information,
some pointers to its
parent and its window,
the position, size,
and finally the title.
And this is what you saw in
our text-to-speech demo where
we're grabbing the title,
and that's what we're going to speak.
And then at the bottom
down here are the actions.
And so this supports a single action,
press.
So let's go try it out and
see if that actually works.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to click on this perform
button and it's going to use the
Accessibility API to send that press
action to the startup disk icon.
So I'll push that and
you'll see that it changes.
So let me go lock on something else and
I'll lock on the actual window itself.
And it doesn't have any actions per se,
but it has some rules.
So let me bring it forward.
So the ones that have W's after them
are things that we can actually change.
So let's do something fun.
Let's change the position of it.
[Transcript missing]
Set it back to zero,
which is Google in default,
and it pops back up.
So this tool is really great because
it allows you as a target application
developer to go through your
application and to test to make sure
that your accessibility features work.
And as an accessibility
client application developer,
you can look around through all the
system and different applications
to see what is available for you.
So that's all I wanted to show.
Back to you.
Bring the slides back on.
Okay, so now that we've gone over sort
of the high-level overview of the
concepts behind the Accessibility APIs,
now we've got about seven slides that
are more or less the header files.
So I apologize in advance
if it's a little dry.
I think for the programmers
in the audience,
this is what you want to see.
So as I mentioned before,
accessibility is not
going to be on by default.
And if your system app wants to
determine whether or not it's on,
there's an API,
AX API enabled that will let
you know whether it's on.
And if it's not,
you'll have to explain to the user
what they need to do to turn it on.
You'll notice all these
APIs start with the letters AX.
One issue I've been kind
of skirting around is,
what is the data type of these
UI elements that we're talking about?
They're a CF type.
It's a type of our own invention,
and they're reference counted
like other CF types are.
You have to use retain and
release to manage that.
You could use them as
elements of CFArrays,
as keys in CFDictionary's.
If you want to determine if some
ref you have is a UI element,
you can compare its type against the
return value of AX UI element get type.
So this slide presents basically the
starting point for most of you into
the user interface element hierarchy.
If you're doing sort
of a top-down approach,
like the speech recognition system does,
every time an app is activated it
starts at the top and starts looking
around at the active window and
digging through and finding out all
the commands it should recognize.
Then you'll use the
create application call.
It takes the process ID of an application
and it returns you a UI element
for its top or application object.
If, on the other hand,
you're doing more of
a bottom-up approach,
as Kevin was just demonstrating,
for instance, you want to know what
UI element is under the mouse,
then you'll probably start by
creating a system-wide UI element
with Create System-Wide.
And then you can use the call
Copy UI Element at Position to get
the UI element at a specific position.
And then also, this slide also shows
the keyboard posting API,
if your application needs
to emulate a keyboard.
So this slide shows all the
API that's involving attributes.
Given a UI element, the first call,
Copy Attribute Names,
is going to give you a list of
all the attributes it supports.
Copy Attribute Value will give you
the value of a specific attribute.
Is Attribute Settable will let you know
whether you can set that attribute.
And finally, Set Attribute Value will
let you set its value.
There are actually two more
APIs involving attributes.
These are special ones for attributes
whose values could be large arrays.
You could imagine a table view
with a large number of children.
[Transcript missing]
Another issue I've kind of skirted is
what is the data type of these values?
In some cases, it's pretty obvious.
CFStrings would represent strings.
CFNumbers will represent numbers.
But there's a few other odd
cases like sizes or ranges or
points that there's really no,
or at least there's currently no
CF type that represents it very well.
So in these cases,
you're going to get back
a generic CF type rep.
And you can pass it to AX value get type.
And that's going to tell you
whether or not it's one of
these points or sizes or ranges.
Or if it returns a legal value,
it means it's just something else.
Once you determine you have
one of these special values,
like a point,
and you actually want to work with it,
then you pass it to axValue.getValue,
and that will return
the point as a CG point,
and then you can extract
its x and y coordinates.
and then the opposite
direction is also possible.
For instance,
if you want to set the position,
you need to create one of these
things and you use AX value create
to create one of these types.
These are the three APIs that
are dealing with actions.
The first one lets you get a list of all
the actions that a UI element supports.
The second one allows you to get the
description of a particular action
in order to present it to the user.
And the final one lets
you perform the action.
And these are the notification APIs.
You start out by creating an observer,
which basically associates a callback
routine with a particular application.
Then you use Add Notification to
hook that up to observe whatever
notification you're interested in.
And then you could use
Remove Notification if you lose
interest in that notification.
Now, the reason we have this extra step
of creating an observer instead of
having Add Notification take a callback
directly is that we wanted to give
you flexibility over what run loop
your callbacks would be executed in.
So the thing to remember is
after you create your observer,
you have to get its run loop source
and then add it to some run loop.
If you fail to do this,
your notification will not get called.
And that's it for the APIs.
This slide shows some of the
documentation that's available.
And the first document covers
these APIs and how you,
you know, from the point of view of
someone writing an assistive app.
And the second document is the
topic of the next two sessions,
basically what Cocoa and
Carbon developers need to do in
order to work with these APIs.
I have a road map slide
somewhere in here.
Yes, it's the next slide.
Just to let you know,
there's actually two
other sessions today.
I think they're in this hall.
I think they're one after another.
Yes, they are.
And those sort of finish out
the accessibility story because,
like I said,
there's a relationship between
the Accessibility APIs,
which then talk to some of
the new stuff we've put in
each framework to support it.
And we have an Accessibility and Carbon,
which will go into details of
your Carbon application developer,
what you have to do
to support these APIs.
In some cases,
you get a lot of functionality free.
But in other cases, like custom controls,
you may actually have
to implement something.
And then Cocoa Controls and
Cocoa Accessibility is actually going
to cover both Cocoa Controls with,
towards the end,
a little bit of information on the
accessibility for Cocoa because a lot
of the Cocoa Controls automatically
support accessibility now.
So those two sessions
are a little bit later.
And please come see those to get the
whole picture of accessibility on Jaguar.
Now what I'd like to do is
host a question and answer.
I'd like to invite...